This repository contains code for the preprint and submitted manuscript 'Characterising a species-rich and understudied tropical insect fauna using DNA barcoding' by Hemprich-Bennett et al. (2025).

The repository's analyses took place in Rstudio server in a docker container, pulled from dockerhub using the two scripts in the container_files directory. This image was built using the script in 'container_files/image_build.sh'. However the analyses should work in any R environment with the required packages installed.

Raw data files are available in the data/raw_data directory. One large raw file, `BOLD_Public.11-Jul-2025.tsv` (29 GB), used in scripts/07_big_public_dataset_processing.R, is not included here due to its size. It has been uploaded to GigaScience’s GigaDB repository, along with all processed data and results, and will be publicly available upon acceptance.

In the meantime similar “snapshot” datasets can be downloaded from BOLD at https://v4.boldsystems.org/index.php/datapackages. These are updated regularly, as are the datasets downloaded when rerunning scripts 2 and 5 that query BOLD’s public data. Therefore, minor changes to some manuscript values may occur when rerunning analyses comparing our data to new snapshots or queries of BOLD’s public data. The values used in the manuscript were accurate based on data queried using scripts 2 and 5 on 15th September 2025, and the snapshot from BOLD generated on 11th July 2025. The values queried in scripts 2 and 5 are stored in the `data/processed_data/BOLD_queries` directory in the dataset uploaded to GigaScience's GigaDB repository, along with all other processed data files, for full reproducibility of published analyses.
